how to start and grow a B2B SAS
[Music]
company welcome back to a fresh episode
of Breaking
bb.com I'm your host Sam Dunning founder
over at breaking B2B and if you want to
check out 350 plus past
episodes try our daily newsletter or
apply to work with us head over to
Breaking bb.com so joining me today I've
got Kyle racky Kyle's the co-founder
over at proposify we're going to be
diving into how you can grow a B2B SAS
K's grown proposal five to 8 million
plus in annual revenue we been talking
about how you can find a problem that's
actually worth solving the first few
steps you should consider when it comes
to growing a SAS company how to know if
you're on the right tracks when you're
building out the business key learnings
mistakes and Main growth levers to
hitting that first million and then
beyond as well as some marketing Secrets
Kyle welcome to the show how are we
doing we're doing great thanks for
having me Sam no worries man looking
forward to the to the chat so first
things first when it comes to building
out a SAS
company what are the main things we need
to consider to actually work out a
problem that's going to be worth solving
with our offer our tool or our
software it's uh it's funny
because it's now been over 10 years
since uh since I really kind of started
finding product Market fit with
proposify it's about 15 years since I
even started thinking about it and
started to to to plan and build it so
it's it's been a lot's changed a lot
hasn't changed but um you know 2000s
early 2010s was kind of when when this
journey started so there's a lot more
SAS now there's a lot more uh
competition as they say software is
eating the world so I you
know I haven't been in that early stage
figure out product Market fit mode for a
while but I think one thing that I can
share is that uh proposify wasn't my
first SAS product that I tried so I kind
of made the classic mistake when I was
running a a web design agency of you
know having an idea napkin sketch going
ahead and just building something and
and uh you know I was paying developers
really to build it which in a way I
learned a lot I learned a lot about what
not to do but it's also not the smartest
way to build software and so nowadays uh
you have no code apps and and it's kind
of easier to build working prototypes
with figma and those kind of things so I
would probably teach take that approach
of build something really quickly when
you have an idea that you can just get
in front of users and potential users
and show them um but either if you're
not going to start with your own pain
then that's where you really want to do
customer
research with proposify it was it was
the pain that I personally felt for many
years working in agencies and running my
own agencies was around proposals so uh
you know I actually didn't do a lot of
customer research early on I really just
kind of tried to build the product that
I wanted for myself um and then of
course you get it out in front of people
and you learn as you go but I think
that's a lot easier than trying to you
know tap like learn about a market that
you have no experience in and just
trying to build it all completely from
what other people tell you that's really
hard but it is sort of the classic
wisdom of like get out of the building
and talk to people not saying that's a
bad idea don't do it but it's a lot
easier if you can solve your own pain
first yeah and that seems to be quite a
common Trend with Founders that we've
had on the show I.E they've had a
frustration themselves that they've
stumbled into and then they thought hey
I don't really think there's any big
players solving this problem with a
solution a piece of software or tool so
I think I'm going to get out there and
build it and build something to kind of
fix this problem and what's really hard
now is that so many ideas have been done
and there's so many softwares for so
many different things that yep I've seen
a lot of proposal management tools come
and go over the last decade that they
don't exist anymore and I have to
believe it's because they saw something
and they thought oh I'll build I'll
build my own version of that um but
there's really nothing different or
unique so it's very hard to build your
own CRM if you're going to just copy
what everyone else is doing because why
would anyone
switch so such a good point I mean like
you say it's these days it's super diff
in my opinion anyway to think of
something that's almost new or different
in the space you've almost got to work
out a way to differentiate yourself in
those those crowded marketplaces
especially when you say CRM or proposal
proposal tools like you folks are in the
space so how did you know if you can
cast your mind back to 10 years or so
ago when you you founded proposed by in
the first
instance how did you know it was
actually a tool that was solving a legit
problem not just for yourself but other
people or didn't you was it just the
case of I'm going to build this out
because I think this is an issue and I
think other folks are going to have the
same problem I face and find use and
value in this tool or was it more of a
case that I'm going to build it and see
what
happens it started with I'm going to
build it and see what happens um because
the pain my own personal pain and those
around me was pretty well vetted because
at the time so we were running an agency
and i' worked at agencies before that we
wanted our proposals to look really
Stellar because we were design firm so
everything had to look amazing obviously
doing that in word is very difficult um
even PowerPoint really is kind of hard
so we were doing everything in InDesign
which you know is a very designery tool
it's desktop software so it involved a
lot of emailing Word documents or or
emailing text from account managers and
then laying it out in in design sharing
a PDF having them make changes and all
and so there's a lot of process around
it finding old case study images and all
that sort of thing so that was really
where it started um and I thought it
would be a very like design designer um
focused tool but then as I sort of
started to share the Prototype with
people and talk about it with other
people in the market I realized that
virtually every industry SE sends
proposals of some kind and they have
different problems yes they want it to
look good but it's really about the
workflow the writing getting analytics
being able to get it signed easily and
so then I kind of realized that this is
a much bigger market and a much broader
type of use case which makes it easier
and harder right because what a
construction firm values in in proposals
isn't the same as an accounting firm or
um you know so many different Industries
sent it it was really when I started to
get out there and show it to people that
I noticed that it wasn't just agencies
talking about this problem everybody was
saying oh man I hate writing proposals I
have to write proposals you know as part
of my job and it's it takes forever and
so there was real pain and even though
our product wasn't quite there yet that
that sense that other people understood
the pain was really what kept me
invested in going after it got it that
quite often seems to be a trend right
you think that it's just for a specific
industry I.E in your case web design
agencies or similar creative agencies
and then you find out that that problem
in your case the cumbersome journey of
building out these all singing or
dancing proposed documents getting them
designed getting the case studies
getting all the nice images in making
them look pretty etc's come some problem
for bunch of other different sectors too
and you kind of Branch out um how did
that flow like what was your what would
be interesting was were you doing all
the were you having all these
conversation before you went to Market
and started selling or did you start
selling first and then that kind of
happened along the way or well we we had
this sort of prototype which was was
very
nonfunctional I mean it could save
information and that kind of thing but
it was it was very hard to use and um
you know I I think I did like a couple
startup events that were local in my in
my city did like pitch competitions and
those kind of things so that started to
build like a little bit of local Buzz
around it but we really had nothing to
sell so it was at that point that we
started to um really invest in like
having hiring a developer to work in our
web design agency who just purely worked
on that product and you know he and I
together would sort of figure out what
we needed to build in order just to
launch like a early beta so we launched
that early beta in around April
2013 and even then that was just the
starting point right so once we had like
okay sign up for a trial and you can pay
after 14 days or what have you um you
know virtually nobody was paying right
because the product wasn't there yet it
just didn't do enough it was clunky and
and all that stuff so it really required
a lot of iteration over about 18 months
just to get it to the point where you
know we we could have more than one or
two customers using the product and
actually getting value of it the the
journey to product Market fit kind of
began as soon as we
launched uh and it's it's a long journey
for most people and that's it's arguably
the hardest part of the startup is like
some people never get to product Market
fit but when you're there you know it
because we we went from losing a
customer gaining a customer staying at
flat Revenue a th bucks Mr to doubling
tripling Mr every month and having it
compound that was when we started to
notice the product Market fit and that
was again 18 months after launching got
it okay so you went into beta did you
say you went to some product FS to kind
of get feedback on the offer is that
right yeah I I signed up for like a demo
uh pitch comp competitions you know demo
Camp was one of them that was the one
that you know the first one that I
showed showed it um yeah got it and then
you you had the product around for 18
months or so in like a beta version
where people could do a free trial as
people weren't really opting in to pay
because it was still being built out and
features being developed and prototypes
being signed off and that kind of stuff
yeah yeah absolutely gotcha is that
something you'd encourage kind of
aspiring Founders that wanting to set
obsess and see success to do as well as
you mentioned it took a while to find
product Market fit which we'll get into
in a sec it's that a sense would re I
think that it's if I was to do it again
if I was to build a product brand new
from scratch with no prior brand or name
or anything like that um I would still
probably build for maybe two or three
months and then I would launch um
because really you don't know anything
until you launch it you can have your
customer interviews can show your wire
frames and all that kind of stuff but
the real test is when you put a product
in front of somebody show them how to
use it and then say hand over some money
if you want to keep using it yep um a
lot of people are afraid of that they're
afraid uh they're afraid to hear that
their baby's ugly but the sooner you can
hear the sooner you can learn you really
have to embrace people giving you harsh
feedback or saying I don't get this this
makes no sense this is useless I can't
do it because X Y and Z uh and I I've
known and and kind of seen Founders that
will like Tinker away on something for
two years in stealth mode until they
launch it uh because it they they want
to get the launch right and and that's
the biggest thing is like the launch is
completely irrelevant nobody cares about
the launch it is it will be forgotten an
hour after you launch so just get it in
front of
people oh man that that cast me back
like we've recently rebranded to
Breaking B2B right and I I was literally
stress ing so much about this new
website working night and day with a
design and Dev team and then after we
launched I thought well this hasn't
really done all that much because it's
on a fresh domain it's going to take us
a while to build up the SEO it's going
to take us a while to build up an
audience build up momentum across multi
channels it's like I've stressed out so
much kind of almost over nothing in the
sense that we're going to build out
anyway and we've got we've got various
audiences on other platforms so it's
it's funny how as a Founder you stress
about weird things at times it's true if
you have a large audience already then
the stakes might be higher to get it
right but even then you know yeah if if
you're starting with like a very small
audience you can you have the freedom to
do anything so you can put ugly broken
buggy products that that don't work in
front of people as this is your test
this is this is you learning and it's so
important to just do that and not to to
you know be precious about it
how did you manage feedback Kyle because
I'm sure you would have got all sorts
especially I can imagine from creative
agencies everyone's got their own two
cents on what they think looks good
works well is a slick slick tool how did
you manag from kind of people's opinions
to then actually putting out what you
thought was a general consensus from the
market and then what you were going to
ship out as features in your kind of
let's say version one of what you
brought to Market of of the cess too
yeah you know I saved old emails uh of
of people you know investors and people
like that who were saying I don't get it
um you know agency owners who are like
why wouldn't you just use Adobe you know
I had a lot of people telling me that
like there's no Pro there's no problem
here so I think it's a it's a tough
balance between listening to the market
and also believing in your vision and
kind of tuning out the
there's there's it's not cut and dry
it's not easy to do that um I think
we're so conditioned now because we've
heard it so much like talk to customers
listen to the market that um it it can
easily cause you to give up too quickly
where somebody tells you negative
feedback well I guess this idea isn't
worth pursuing because three people told
me they don't have that problem so yeah
it is a difficult balance and you do
have to be a bit stubborn in Your Vision
um you know obviously if people are like
if everybody is universally telling you
I don't care then that's an issue but if
you have some people saying like oh wow
I'm really interested in this I really
like struggle with this then you have to
put in the time to really figure out
what would elicit the response you want
and so for example with proposify I was
very focused on the design and the
layout and sort of the you know browser
based editor right which is an important
component you can't really write a
proposal without that but what really
unlocked product Market fit for us was
stuff like templates that they could
just pick up and use within you know a
few minutes of signing up uh it was
stuff like analytics knowing where
prospects look at your proposals you
know how how long do they spend on each
section and E signatures which sort of
is funny today because it's so
ubiquitous every every tool has like an
e signature thing but back then I mean
we were an agency still faxing documents
to get signed um we hadn't even adopted
docu sign in you know early um late
2000s so yeah I mean there was a few
features that basically took it from
okay I kind of get it this is sort of
helpful to oh well this is 10 times
better than the status quo and it takes
time to figure out what those things
are sounds like getting a healthy
balance when it comes to getting
customer feedback so as long as you're
getting some positive
responses you've got to almost drown out
some of the negative stuff I suppose
unless there's constantly someone saying
that we near really need this feature or
this isn't quite working how we want it
but if there's just one or two out of a
decent amount then it's almost at stage
one worth neglecting is that fair I
think was it Jeff Bezos or or somebody
like that who said stubborn on Vision
flexible on
details um whoever said it I think it's
a it's a good approach is like if you
have a vision for something if you if
you spend enough time thinking about a
problem and and a
solution uh and it won't leave you
there's there's probably something there
so you you do have to kind of be
stubborn about no like I am pursuing
this because I believe it fully the
details can change though the that's
where you that's where the Market's
really useful is in telling you well it
would be so much better if we could do
this or I can't use it because of this
and that's where you really want to be
flexible and pivot a lot towards
ultimately achieving your vision got it
helpful okay and when it came to in your
case funding the the first version of
the product did you take cash from your
agency or did you go out and seek
funding or was it a mix of both we
invested a lot of our own time into it
and um a bit of our agency time as well
right because we had developers and
designers in the agency who could help
out with that stuff um it's a means to
an end it's it's hard to really build a
true product that way because you're
always going to make it a side project
and you know put in in a couple hours a
week which just isn't enough focus and
energy to really make it turn it into
something but it's a good
start we also happen to live in um
Canada and especially Atlantic Canada
there's a lot of funding opportunities
here with um Federal provincial you know
Grant programs um there's there's the
scientific research and uh education I
can't remember the acronym but it's
shred shred is the acronym I can't
remember what it stands for um so
there's a lot of non-dilutive options
here which we took advantage of and a
lot of Canadian companies do I realize
it's a little harder in the US because
there's not as many of those things um
but we were thankfully able to not take
dilutive funding for for quite a
while gotcha do you think that's uh
would you recommend that any anyone
that's building out assess to seek
funding or do you think if you can you
should try and bootstrap it or cash it
off your own back and if you look back
on your own Journey do you think you
might have changed something on that
front if you if you can code then you're
in a really good position because you
can you don't really need to rely on
anybody you can build your product now
it's going to take a lot of your time
energy and effort and there's additional
skills you'll need to learn so if you're
a technical founder you have the luxury
of of not having to rely on anybody to
build your product um but technical
Founders struggle when it comes to like
customer Discovery and sort of more of
the uh marketing and sales side they're
not as usually uh they're more reluctant
to ask for wallet share from a customer
so I think that there's skills you need
to learn if you're a technical founder
in order to really be able to launch and
grow your uh startup and at least get to
product Market fit or close to it with
zero funding that's one thing now if
you're a non-technical founder and let's
say you're a subject matter expert or
you're somebody who's you know
passionate about the problem but you
can't build it yourself you're going to
need to find some way to do it so it
could be bringing on a technical
co-founder which is hard I think a lot
of people default to that but it's
actually a lot harder than it sounds
there's not a lot of skilled developers
who make good technical co-founders who
are you know anxious to build your idea
right so the if going to hire a
developer to build it the money's got to
come from somewhere there's overseas
options can be cheaper again you're
probably more in Prototype territory
you're not going to build like a really
scalable product but if it helps you
just get that initial version up and
running that you can iterate on that
that can work um you know that the
money's got to come from somewhere if
you happen to live in a a part of the
world where grants and uh you know
interest free loans and things like that
are an option absolutely take it before
you raise investment dollars but taking
you know dilutive capital is not what it
once was right we've seen in the last
year or so with the economy and the
recession and everything that VCS are
not as eager to uh pour a million
dollars into a a startup idea anymore in
early stage as they once were yeah
definitely feels like funding isn't
quite as available as it was um kind of
2020 that era certainly the last couple
years it seems to have shook up in the
tech world so we talked about jumping
back a bit he talked about you just knew
when you had product Market
fit what was it that you knew like how
did you
know we we were able to for quite a
while predictably Drive traffic to our
website and get signups right so we we
had sort of cracked that for the most
part in terms of like we were we were
good at SEO content and we were doing a
little bit of paid
advertising we knew like we could
predictably get um say 50 100 people a
month to sign up to the product now
nobody converted or every now and then
we would get one person convert to a
paid account and then they'd be gone a
month later so we knew that the demand
was there the interest was there but we
just weren't delivering there was a few
key things that we needed to build which
I touched on which was templates metrics
and signatures which we needed time to
build those things but once we built
them and especially the onboarding piece
in the templates that was always the
biggest hurdle right somebody would say
well I already have my proposal template
how can I get it in can I just upload it
or drag and drop it and that's very hard
to build that type of feature so you did
kind of have to start from scratch and
then once you were up and running well
it was a lot easier but that hurdle of
onboarding was very difficult once we
cracked that through the use of
templates that was the month where we
noticed we were going from about $1,000
in monthly recurring Revenue to 2,000
where we had we couldn't crack the 1,000
for 18 months we were now doubling it in
one month that caused us to perk up and
say oo something's a little different
here and then when the next month it was
4,000 and the next month it was 8,000 we
knew growth was really starting to
happen and it was only about a year year
and a half later we were at the 1
million a year
mark gotcha and okay so you you were in
the plg motion you're doing free
trials before we talk about kind of a
bit more detail about how you acquired
those customers it sound like SEO maybe
some paid traffic Etc we'll dive into
that into a sec do encourage any B2B SAS
to start with free sign up free trial
whatever it is is a route to get their
hands on the product try it out before
they then may or may not become a paid
user it all depends right I think
there's a lot of advantages to starting
at this bottom end of the market and
selling to individuals or Freelancers or
solopreneurs um because they're
generally very quick to try new tools
offer
feedback um you know pay $10 a month or
some sort of cheap subscription fee so
it's a pretty good Market test almost
every SAS company and and the big
publicly traded SAS companies that we
all know and heard of it's only a matter
of time until they move up market and
start selling to midmarket and have an
Enterprise addition and that sort of
thing um it's a pretty proven way of of
of growth after you found that initial
product Market fit because the
difficulty with small customers of
course is churn is always going to be
very high which is always going to
hamper your growth and you know I
haven't looked at say a company like the
C app or headspace those meditation apps
they're all very lowprice products that
sell to you know a high volume of of of
micro customers I have to imagine their
turn is is very very high so you know it
becomes with with the cost of
acquisition reaching a large enough
audience in order to scale Revenue very
quickly with small customers is hard now
again easiest place to start that said
if you're if the problem you're solving
is an Enterprise problem because let's
say you've come from an Enterprise where
they had this million dollar or 10
million dollar problem and nobody's
solving it and everybody just sticks
with the status quo because it's the
only option y then you probably
shouldn't offer a free trial for your
MVP right like you should be getting in
there and working with like one or two
or three Enterprise companies solving
their $10 million problem and charging
accordingly yeah yeah yeah but then I
suppose when you're going down that
route things like sales cycle time just
shoots right up the amount of decision
makers you got to get involved and
probably the fact that you're going to
need a sales team from the off to to
handle these discussions where I suppose
when you're lower ticket you don't need
any of that almost because they're
they're almost self- served through the
website but let's say that you take that
let's say it takes you two years right
to land your first million dollar
contract with a customer because you've
more or less been custom building it for
them and you've probably been paid for
like a proof of concept like they're
they're helping to fund that that build
um if after that you go okay the product
works we've got two Enterprises using it
and they're paying us hundreds of
thousands or even a million dollars a
year to use it there's your funding
right so you can now take that and you
can hire your first rep uh or you can
just continue to to run sales yourself
as the founder until you have a
predictable proven model I wouldn't be
afraid of the long sales Cycles though
personally but again it depends on the
scale of problem you're solving and if
it makes sense to start high-end then a
lot of companies have started there I
know vidyard um started as Enterprise
and they've kind of gone down Market
over time there's no one way to build a
startup got it go it and just go back to
the template sort of thing so you you
went conf of not that much Mr to 1K Mr
and then suddenly jumped to 2K and then
ramped up from then in your position it
sounds like adding that template feature
was the Tipping Point was that purely
from just talking to customers that were
already signed up and saying kind of
what's working what's not what do you
feel is
missing I mean more or less yeah it was
um I think it's if you find that people
will sign up for your product but they
don't continue to use it then there's
usually a reason and it's usually kind
of an onboarding reason um whatever that
onboarding happens to be for you so you
need to do whatever it requires in order
to get them up and active using it um I
always think that you know we put too
much focus on the top of the funnel like
generating leads and getting people to
sign up we don't put enough on the
bottom of like why do people leave or
why don't they even start using it in
the first place that's where you should
be spending probably 80% of your time um
as a Founder is really just looking at
how do people use the product and what's
keeping them from getting value from it
for us it was an onboarding issue and
templat solved that for somebody else it
might be you know they need to install a
technical script on their website and
they don't know how to do that if you
need to roll up your sleeves and get on
a call with every single sign up and get
them active you can always figure out
how to you know scale that and make it
more efficient and more automated later
on but you should literally be bending
over backwards for uh for users who are
paying you zero in their early
days so were you talking to mainly
churned customers in that case to get
that kind of feedback as to why they
hopped off perhaps I was talking to
anybody who would talk to me so that
could have been people who churned most
of it was just uh I mean one of the the
the easiest hacks in the world that I
learned from Alex Turnbull from Groove
was send a automated email to every
person who signs up to your product that
comes from the founder that looks like
it was written by you that says thanks
for signing up to company you know to to
my product we do you know we this is the
problem we solve so like reinforce the
message of like this is who we're for I
want I would love to hear from you why
you signed up just hit reply and let me
know and just asking them why did you
sign up will start those conversations
which then lead you to go okay whoever's
engaged in answering these hey do you
want to hop on a 20-minute call and I
can you know help walk you through it or
understand your needs more and like that
should be where you're living most of
your life as an early stage founder if
you're not doing that and getting
constant feedback from everybody then
you know it's going to be very difficult
to find product Market fit
love that tip now getting those first
few customers what talk us through kind
of how you attracted the first few
customers to to get to the 1K and then
2K and then kind of ramped up from there
yeah I mean you know we launched the
website we even before we had a product
we had a email sign up form we faked it
so we made it look like the product
existed but once you entered your email
it would say hey thanks we're you know
we're we're still building it but we'll
let you know so we started to build our
that way I think I ran a small AdWords
test like
$1,000 just to drive people who had
there wasn't a lot of search volume for
like proposal software but there was a
little bit that I was able to capture in
very low
competition um otherwise it was blogging
guest blogging which was you know a very
very popular tactic about 10 years ago
not as uh not as useful now but at the
time it was like creating content for
agencies so like I was a digital agency
owner
I knew the pain and and struggles they
had and had learned some lessons so I
started to create content around like
running an agency and selling clients
and that kind of thing and then I
started to guest blog and try to get it
on websites with more traffic Smashing
Magazine I once did a post for them and
so I'd find people who were kind of in
that agency spa space niching down
really helped because I think our
homepage said like proposal software for
digital agencies uh which just made the
marketing way easier and then started to
like Buy uh banner ads on like a list
apart and things that were very much
like designer digital agency
websites that was just how we started to
build like a sort of you know repeatable
traffic and and you know any searches
were basically coming to the site
understood okay so initially it was
Niche down to digital agencies a lot of
SEO work blog work some Google ads
banner ads on relevant sites that that
Target Market of digital agencies to be
hanging out on and how far did that go
if you if you can remember back then
like what what did that take you to into
in terms of monthly
Revenue well that was just to build up
sort of the initial base once we started
to find product Market fit and and
revenue was growing quickly then we were
able to start adding to the team so uh
my first marketing hire was Jen fauler
who's still at the company and uh our
director of branding Communications so
she and I would work together on content
and social media and things like that um
and then we added another marketer to
the team who was kind of more of a
growth marketer and did uh you know was
more helpful from like analytics and
Automation and paid advertising and that
kind of thing so that once we had
revenue from the sort of initial base of
traffic we were getting then we were
able to start building a team and and
really start to uh add to the channels
and start to just create and produce a
whole lot more content gotcha
and in terms of that Revenue what was
like the next land Landmark for in your
case
proposify and what were some of the
growth levers that you pulled to hit
it yeah after the the one million was an
exciting time and and growth was still
very happening very quickly um probably
around like the three four5 million Mark
growth started to slow and that was when
we started to really see that well a
there was just a lot more competition
there's a you know very large competitor
who had raised tens and tens of millions
of dollars and competed against us um
but really the the thing that we the
thing that kept me up was seeing that
even despite putting investment into the
product and uh and everything else churn
was a very hard nut to crack because the
people who left when we would survey
them on exit they weren't saying that
they didn't like the product or it
wasn't useful or anything like that they
were basically saying oh I don't use
this all the time I use it every now and
then because I don't really have a lot
of proposals to write and that is a
difficult you know it's hard to put
churn reduction tactics in you know if
they don't need the product sure so that
really put the focus on we need to move
up Market we need to sell to bigger
companies and I can say that today we
you know we put all or most most of our
marketing and sales energy on bigger
customers and all of our product energy
on bigger customers with teams who write
a lot of proposals who never run out of
proposals to write but the process of of
going up market and of figuring out who
is that customer and what is the
positioning and how do we price it um
that is that took years to figure out
and I think we've only just started
cracking
that gotcha how long did you stay niched
to digital agencies by the
way um I would say by the time we're at
a million we were starting to broaden
out a little bit into other avenues and
the funny thing is today proposify is we
have digital agencies of course who use
us um and even some large ones but um
but our core like ICP customer is it
sort of breaks down into white collar
and blue collar so we have like large
consultancies which includes agencies
but actually a huge of our U best
customers and our biggest customers are
in the blue collar space um think you
know cleaning
franchises um landscaping companies
companies that do uh parking lot
maintenance like very uh kind of in a
way old school businesses actually get a
ton of value out of proposal F so that's
become much more of where we lean than
towards like the small 10 person agency
yeah yeah nice and when was it that kind
of that you worked out that it was
perhaps worth tapping into other
Industries like you hit that million you
were niched down at the time into
digital agencies when do you think I
think this could work for other other
sectors too well we we were exploring
early on um like after as we sorted to
expand out of digital agencies a big
growth tactic for a long time was
actually putting template landing pages
out there for SEO reasons because
there's a lot of monthly searches for
things like you know cleaning proposal
temp tempate cleaning proposal sample or
example and so we would build all these
templates for all these different
Industries and then just focus on
getting them to rank all of the
competitors do that now and it's not as
useful a growth tactic as it once was
but that was how we broaden out really
once we brought on a sales team and a
sales leader and we started to try to
crack our positioning and our pricing
model which the pricing model was
probably the biggest thing that allowed
us to sell six figure accounts we
wouldn't have been able to do that if we
hadn't invested the time and energy in
figuring out pricing and packaging um
but other than that it's it was sort of
looking at who was naturally coming to
us once we had a lot of traffic and Lead
flow and and deals that we were able to
look at we started to notice trends of
who was buying proposify and why were
they buying us and we happen to see that
a lot of bluecolor businesses that are
still large that have large teams were
the ones getting the value because what
we positioned on which is different than
the early days is it's not just you know
make beautiful proposals or write
proposals faster it's literally like get
more control over the proposals your
team is sending out that's that's the
biggest pain that we solve for for large
companies is they're like I have no
visibility into what's going out sales
reps are sending the wrong information
or outdated content with wrong pricing
and terms I need to get control over
what they're sending so that it's more
consistent and more professional once we
started to lean into that for our
positioning we we were bringing in more
of the types of customers that we wanted
and and much more profitable
customers were you um were you mainly
inbound like when I say that because a
lot of the strategies that you've
outlined things like
SEO Google paid
search blogging all that good stuff was
it mainly inbound and selfs sered
through the website up to a certain
point
like because I think now you've got an
outbound a sales team that do some
outbound and stuff like that like was
there a point where you thought yeah we
can go up to inbound up to this level
now we need to hire a Sal sales team to
kind of perhaps go up market and then
maybe Branch out into upbound with those
kind of certain
points I I think we were premature in
hiring a sales team initially because we
had raised a round of funding and we
wanted to put that towards um selling
that Enterprise Edition or what have you
um but we hadn't figured out a lot of
the foundations in order to make that
successful so we were not successful at
um selling large deals early on but in
terms of just you know the growth
Channel or the the channel to get um
leads in the door um I had a a natural
bias against outbound I didn't think it
worked um I didn't like doing it but it
was because I'm I'm a marketer right I'm
designer by trade uh so I mean even
today I would say probably 70 80% of our
um leads are coming in from inbound from
G2 searches the brand the name has been
around for a long time too so it helps
being you know within the top three
competing Solutions in the space you get
a lot of just inbound deal flow when
somebody's researching a solution we do
a lot of P paid advertising as well but
significantly a lot of large deals do
come from outbound and Scott Tower our
director of sales is a big believer in
outbound he started as an outbound found
bdr proposify and eventually um grew
into our our head of sales and um and
I've seen it work right like I've seen
you it's it's the thing with outbound is
you're contacting people cold and you've
got to do a high amount of volume in
order to get people in the door and a
certain percentage will have the problem
you solve and it will be top of mind so
you're going to book meetings but
getting them from hey this is
interesting I wasn't really looking but
but tell me more to deal it's it's just
a longer cycle to do that the advantage
of outbound though is that you can be
very selective on who you pitch to and
they're also not usually looking at
Alternatives so if you do happen to get
somebody in the door who's who's like oh
I really struggle with this can you guys
help um if you can convince them that
you you really will solve their problem
they're probably not going to look at
the competing Solutions so there's a lot
of benefit to outbound but I like to
think of it as as you know sort of the
the buzz term now allbound very seldom
will somebody in isolation come through
outbound or inbound usually you contact
somebody who has seen maybe something
some content online maybe got retargeted
with an ad it's all there's multiple
touch points to bring somebody in the
door and I think that for most
businesses SAS or otherwise if you're
not doing a combination of content paid
and
outbound you're you're not getting as
many leads as you could
be you and I have a very similar mindset
it annoys me so much when I see
marketing leaders even CMOS VPS of
marketing saying outbounds a waste of
time the only way to do marketing now is
to create new demand in your sector and
it's like such a to me it's quite a
backward approach because like you said
inbound has its pros but then so does
outbound because you can handpick Target
accounts you want to go for and get in
there early as well well why would you
limit yourself and why would you just
say one channel is not working when
there's plenty of ways to do it
appreciate if your early stage startup
then you want to fine tune on those
quick wins and that probably is
capturing Demand with paid search SEO G2
capter whatever is relevant but when
you're in growth mode I mean doing doing
all all you can makes sense right well
to that point you know like you just
said capturing demand we talk a lot
about demand generation but most of
demand generation is actually demand
capturing which means people are already
in the market for a solution you're just
making sure that they hear about you and
they're in front of you um true demand
generation is making people aware of a
problem they didn't know they had and
and outbound bdrs are very good at doing
that um and that I think makes a very
small percentage of true demand
generation which is why it's easier to
just pull in people who are already
evaluating
software yeah yeah yeah there there we
could go down a whole rabbit hole with
that I'm sure I could as well but want
to keep want to keep the convo flowing
so well are we so we've talked about
inbound talked a bit about outbound
talked about as you've grown it's been a
bit more difficult to identify kind of
what is causing customers to
churn
now before we hit record it sounds like
you've overtaken the the marketing side
of things for pro is that
right yeah absolutely um so you know
I've had two marketing leaders over the
lifetime of
proposify and uh Nadia our vpm marketing
who we're still on you know great terms
with she took a she took another
opportunity a few months ago and um I
wanted I instead of just kind of
knee-jerk reaction of like okay I guess
I just need to hire somebody else um I
really wanted to take some time to just
sit with the team see what was happening
see what we were doing um find some
opportunities and and what I found was
that um I think that there's an area
where we can really focus our effort
differently than we had been before um
and where marketing is is is my
background and running an agency and
everything like it I actually am having
the most fun I think I've had in a long
time running this business for 10 years
is really just getting to work with a
team that's on the ground executing and
executing with them is very rewarding
for me and we're starting to see some
some results from it nice man and I know
you shared some of the the marketing
strategies you used back in the day but
are there any that you're using
currently to share perhaps some that you
experimented with that you thought would
work and didn't or some ones you thought
definitely would flop that have been a
hit yeah I mean the biggest
opportunities I'm seeing right now for
our marketing is we we we started this
business being very good at content
and sharing our thoughts and being able
to like create thought leadership and we
sort of lost our way I think over the
years where it be became very much about
like SEO only right so blogs nowadays
it's it's kind of sad I think right now
that uh most people most SAS businesses
use their blog as just like an SEO tool
because people aren't like subscribing
and really reading blogs the way they
used to there's a lot of like email
newsletters that people will get
involved with
follow an influencer and care about them
but blogs as
a you know a chance for like a writer to
express their thoughts is is just not
what it once was it's about hey there's
this many searches for these keywords
let's just like make sure we show up on
page one for them even if they don't
even come to the website so I I think
number one right now is we we are
working on a Content strategy and a
Content engine that's going to become
much more about true thought leadership
and growing Our Brands personal in
business and then on the paid side I
also think that a lot of marketers
aren't doing enough experimentation with
ads in order to get paid ads working
really well you have to test a lot of
creative and you have to test them
against each other and you have to
really look at like at what point are we
retargeting the audience with this
message and I found that there was just
a huge opportunity to do that in a way
that we hadn't been doing historically
where we were just kind of running the
same creative over and over again so
those two areas along with just working
really closely with sales that's the
thing I find I found weird is that like
marketing and sales leaders have this
kind of uh you
know almost mistrust of each other where
they're just not sharing enough
information where you go hey sales team
you're you're prospecting this cold list
are we are we Reet are we actually
advertising to them oh no like we didn't
share that with marketing there was a
lot of just that lack of like
collaboration happening that I think is
natural that I've seen through many
leaders it hasn't just been anyone in
particular that we're just getting way
Tighter and More in sync now if sales is
going after a particular market for a
quarter marketing should be hand inand
with them creating content running ads
um you know helping them with an event
strategy like there's just so much that
marketing should be doing to help sales
and if it's B2B you know it's the sales
team who ultimately tells you who they
want it's not marketing to like tell
them sales like we're closing these
people okay marketing's job is to go
find more of them for them and there's
so much you can do on that element now
especially with linkedin's capabilities
like with thought leadership ads where
you can literally boost the thought
leaders whether that's the founder of
the business sales leader marketing
leader you can literally get their their
own organic content that's been
performing well on LinkedIn that shows
expertise and then get that in front of
your target accounts literally coming
from the personal profile as opposed to
before with a company profile so puts a
face behind the name builds more trust
folks like Justin row impactable talking
about this all the time so it's easier
than ever to do some of this stuff um so
if you're going after like you say juicy
accounts in your target market why not
get behind that because it's only going
to help sales and make their lives
easier car before we WRA wrap things up
we've talked a lot about the wins any
Epic sales that you care to share with
us that happened along the way that can
maybe save a few SAS Founders or
aspiring SAS entrepreneurs some some
time in
aggro well I mean I think we might need
another hour or 10 to go over the fails
I I touched on one briefly which was um
trying to scale too quickly raising
money and then sort of just going after
a new market and and sort of trying to
move up Market without having done the
actual homework and and built a
foundation so I think that's a big one
could be because the repercussions of
that were ended up being um laying off
the sales team after 18 months of of
lack of results when and really wasn't
their fault either nor was it the vp's
fault it was we just tried to throw
people out a problem that became over
the a few years at proposify a really
big problem that I had to work hard with
my executive team to fix which was we
were it was it was still uh you know
grow at all costs money and capital
comes relatively easy throwing people at
problems we weren't seeing we weren't
getting the growth that we were looking
for and so we went from burning
$400,000 a month two years ago when we
went through a round of layoffs um which
was still pre recession like this was uh
early 2022 was was when we did our round
of our biggest round of layoffs that
we've ever done um we we had to really
reinvent the business we had to reinvent
you know our core values what we care
about how we approach things how we
don't just hire people every time
there's a problem just hire somebody we
had to work to get efficient and last
year 2023 we the business was profitable
that was the first time we were
profitable since we before we raised
investor dollars and that came about as
you know starting to really learn where
we fell down and um and work hard to
improve it hey look appreciate you
you're sharing that with us because not
many would and no we're close to time so
with that Carl we'll have to have you
back on the the show for a V2 at some
stage but really appreciate you you
coming on sharing the highs and lows
showing the secrets Shar what worked
what didn't how you've grown the
business so it's going to be super
useful for everyone tuning in so with
that please do tell us more about how
everyone can connect with you proposify
and wherever you want to send our
audience sure yeah well thanks for
having me on and let me know when part
two is and I'll be back um you know best
way to reach out to me is through
Linkedin I'm I'm that's the the platform
I'm most active on so Kyle raki is the
name and uh obviously you know if you're
interested in the product uh proposify
docomo to learn more about that um and
also uh currently doing a podcast with a
good friend of mine it's called the raki
and Sims podcast but we're actually
rebranding it in a couple weeks to uh
called lever ship lever ship is the
going to be the name of it so people can
check that out if they're uh if they're
interested just in hearing more of
me awesome man we'll put all of those
links in the show notes and over at
breaking
bb.com and thanks once again for coming
on got to give a a quick shout out to
our sponsors Revenue hero and factors AI
for sponsoring today's episode and if
you want to grab out the the show's
daily newsletter or any other playbooks
and past episodes check out breaking
bb.com and a big thanks to you the
audience for tuning in today we'll catch
you on the next one for more nobs B2B
marketing tips grow your business and
grow Revenue cheers for tuning
[Music]
in